The mini NBC's Custom Sample Project.
Congratulations.
You've successfully completed all the theory in this course together.
We've gone over the course introduction.
We've looked at an overview of unity, including unity structure.
We looked at software design from a high level covering design principles, design patterns, UML diagramming,
as well as architectures themselves.
And then together we dove deep into the MINI and VCs architecture for Unity.
Let's put all of this theory together into practice and create a new project from scratch.
Now, with each sample project we've covered and with this new one as well, we continue to peel back
more layers in MVCs concepts and think critically about how we're applying it.
As we go through this next section.
Think for yourself about which aspects of architecture and this framework are you feeling most comfortable
with?
Are you starting to see the long term benefits when you apply architecture to your projects?
Which parts of the framework do you want to explore more?
Also, consider which aspects may not work for your needs.
What can you do to get the results that you want in a project in which design principles, patterns
and other concepts remain unclear?
Well, up to this point we've seen several samples of MVCs in action.
In each case, we reviewed something that already existed.
Now we'll create a new project from scratch.
Here's the high level process we'll do together.
Well, what is our concept and what are the functional requirements?
What does it need to do?
What's the user experience?
What do they see, and what kind of input do they use?
Which architectural concerns will we need?
Model view controller service, perhaps multiple.
And for which of those concerns can we use the base functionality and for which ones do we need?
Some custom functionality?
So let's make a simple math app, a calculator using many MVCs.
Here's the requirements.
We'll have some input text fields on the screen.
The user will type in two integer numbers and then click an add button to add them together mathematically
and show the result.
So how do we break this down into concerns?
Well, the model stores the data.
So what type of data would we need to make this happen?
Well, starting just from the view and thinking about the data that way, we know we've got some text
fields of the users entering and we need to store them somehow.
So we'll have an integer for the first text field, an integer for the second, and an integer for the
result.
In the view, we'll have some sort of text for A, for B, and also for showing the result in the controller,
which is going to handle the logic would need something to do the add operation as well as a way to
clear or reset the app.
And while in earlier samples we used a service layer to load some external data, we don't need that
for this example, so we won't have a service.
So which of the so what base functionality will we use here?
Here we're thinking about for which concerns do we want standard functionality and for which do we want
custom functionality?
Well, as is typically the case for the model, we want some basic functionality.
There usually isn't a need to stray from the base model.
So here we'll be extending base model for the view.
We will implement the eye view interface as well as extend mono behavior.
Now we've seen this pattern before.
Any time you want to use Unity's UI.
Unity's UI plays very nice with mono behaviors.
So we'll lean into that and we'll use a mono behavior for our view for the controller.
While a base controller class exists that works best when we want one.
Each of a model view controller and service here because we don't need the service.
We've got a few options of how to move forward, but quite simply will implement AI controller and create
custom functionality that doesn't use the service.
And again, on the service layer, we won't use a service, so we'll skip that part.
This is because the app calls for no external data.
So at this stage of the brainstorm, it's a great spot to think about diagramming, using UML.
This helps you think out where the dependencies lie, which interfaces would be implemented, which
classes would be extended, whether you're working on a project by yourself or together with the team,
UML is a great way to communicate and to focus for development.
So taking those same brainstorms we've had in the last few steps, we just articulate that visually.
We'll have a calculator mini class that represents the whole structure inside.
We'll have a calculator model, a calculator controller and the calculator view.
Throughout the course there's been several coding challenge assignments.
If you're ready for the ultimate coding challenge assignment, you can pause the video here.
Use just the information we talked about in this section and start coding from scratch once you complete
the assignment or if you find yourself getting stuck, you can return to this and see how we solved
it together.
Let's see this in action.
I'm going to show from the very beginning getting unity, installing it, creating a new project, adding
the mini and VC's framework and.
Doing live coding for this calculator Sample project.
This sample project will feel a bit different than the ones we've done before because I'm coding it
as I go, so there'll be less editing and if we're lucky, I'll make some mistakes along the way, which
we can solve together.
Let's get started.